Beheer: integreer transport security module in core (#162)
Logius-standaarden/API-Design-Rules: DesignRules.md

      </tbody>
      </table>
   </div>

> 	<p class="note">The HTTP specification [[rfc9110]] and the later introduced <code>PATCH</code> method specification [[rfc5789]] offer a set of standard methods, where every method is designed with explicit semantics. HTTP also defines other methods, e.g. <code>HEAD</code>, <code>OPTIONS</code>, <code>TRACE</code>, and <code>CONNECT</code>.<br>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	<p class="note">The HTTP specification [[rfc9110]] offers a set of standard methods, where every method is designed with explicit semantics. HTTP also defines other methods, e.g. <code>HEAD</code>, <code>OPTIONS</code>, <code>TRACE</code>, and <code>CONNECT</code>.<br>
```
In tegenstelling tot RFC 7231 staat `PATCH` wel in 9110 vermeld.

The scope of this section is limited to generic security controls that directly influence the visible parts of an API.
Effectively, only security standards directly applicable to interactions are discussed here.

In order to meet the complete security objectives, every implementer MUST also apply a range of controls not mentioned in this section.

Note: security controls for signing and encrypting of application level messages will be part of a separate extension, [Signing and Encryption](https://geonovum.github.io/KP-APIs/API-strategie-modules/encryption/).

<span id="api-11"></span>
<div class="rule" id="/core/transport/tls" data-type="technical">
  <p class="rulelab">Secure connections using TLS</p>
   <dl>
      <dt>Statement</dt>
      <dd>
         <p>One should secure all APIs assuming they can be accessed from any location on the internet. Information MUST be exchanged over TLS-based secured connections. No exceptions, so everywhere and always. This is <a href="https://wetten.overheid.nl/BWBR0048156/2023-07-01">required by law</a>.

>          <p>One SHOULD follow the latest NCSC guidelines [[NCSC.TLS]]

Reviewer: Andere documenten hebben al een ref naar dit document, waardoor het reeds in de algemene lijst staat onder [[NCSC 2021]] (vergeef de spatie):
https://github.com/Logius-standaarden/publicatie/blob/fd2b345c75b537af812de5ffa419edeedfa578a3/respec/organisation-config.js#L388-L392

    </dd>
    <dt>Rationale</dt>
    <dd>
        <p>Since the connection is always secured, the access method can be straightforward. This allows the application of basic access tokens instead of encrypted access tokens.
    </dd>
    <dt>Implications</dt>
    <dd>
        This rule can be tested automatically and an example of the test is included in the automatic tests on <a href="https://developer.overheid.nl/">developer.overheid.nl</a>. The specific tests are published in the [[ADR-Validator]] repository.
    </dd>
    <dt>How to test</dt>
    <dd>

>         <p>The usage of TLS is machine testable. Follow the latest NCSC guidelines on what is required to test. The serverside is what will be tested, only control over the server is assumed for testing. A testing client will be employed to test adherence of the server. Supporting any protocols, algorithms, key sizes, options or ciphers that are deemed insufficient or phased out by NCSC will lead to failure on the automated test. Both positive and negative scenario's are part of the test. Testing that a subset of good and sufficient recommendations are supported and testing that phase out and insufficient recommendations are not. A manual exception to the automated test results can be made when phase out recommendations are supported. The API provider will have to provide clear documentation for the phase out schedule.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        <p>The usage of TLS is machine testable. Follow the latest NCSC guidelines on what is required to test. The serverside is what will be tested, only control over the server is assumed for testing. A testing client will be employed to test adherence of the server. Supporting any protocols, algorithms, key sizes, options or ciphers that are deemed insufficient or phased out by NCSC will lead to failure on the automated test. Both positive and negative scenarios are part of the test: testing that a subset of *Good* and *Sufficient* configurations are supported and configurations deemed  *Insufficient* or marked for *Phase out*. A manual exception to the automated test results can be made when configurations designated for*Phase out* are supported; The API provider will have to provide clear documentation regarding the phase out schedule.  
```
"Good", "Sufficient", "Insufficient" en "Phase out" (gebiedende wijs) zijn de termen gebruikt in de Engelse versie van de guidelines van NCSC. Vandaar het voorstel deze verbatim over te nemen.

>          <p>The usage of TLS is machine testable. The test is designed for maximum automation. To test, adherence to NCSC recommendations should be tested. The serverside is what will be tested, only control over the server is assumed for testing. A testing client will be employed to test adherence of the server. Supporting any protocols, algorithms, key sizes, options or ciphers dat are deemed insufficient or phase out by NCSC will lead to failure on the automated test. Both positive and negative scenario's are part of the test. Testing that a subset of good and sufficient recommendations are supported and testing that phase out and insufficient recommendations are not. A manual exception to the automated test results can be made when phase out recommendations are supported. The API provider will have to provide clear documentation for the phase out schedule.  

Reviewer 2: Deze zin loopt nog niet helemaal

    </dd>
  </dl>
</div>

<span id="api-58"></span>
<div class="rule" id="/core/transport/no-sensitive-uris" data-type="functional">
  <p class="rulelab">No sensitive information in URIs</p>
   <dl>
      <dt>Statement</dt>
      <dd>
         Do not put any sensitive information in URIs
      </dd>
      <dt>Rationale</dt>
      <dd>

>          <p>Even when using TLS-based secured connections information in URIs is not secured. URIs can be cached and logged outside of the servers controlled by clients and servers. Any information contained in them should therefore be considered readable by anyone with access to the network (in case of the internet the whole world) and MUST NOT contain any sensitive information. This includes client secrets used for authentication, privacy sensitive information suchs as BSNs or any other information which should not be shared. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
         <p>Even when using TLS connections, information in URIs is not secured. URIs can be cached and logged outside of the servers controlled by clients and servers. Any information contained in them should therefore be considered readable by anyone with access to the network (in the case of the internet, the whole world) and MUST NOT contain any sensitive information. This includes client secrets used for authentication, privacy sensitive information suchs as BSNs or any other information which should not be shared. 
```
Superfluous words

         <p>Be aware that queries (anything after the '?' in a URI) are also part of an URI.
      </dd>
      <dt>Implications</dt>
      <dd>
         Adherence to this rule needs to be manually verified.
      </dd>
   </dl>
</div>

### HTTP-level Security

> The guidelines and principles defined in this extension are client agnostic.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The guidelines and principles defined in this section are client agnostic.
```

When implementing a client agnostic API, one SHOULD at least facilitate that multi-purpose generic HTTP-clients like browsers are able to securely interact with the API.
When implementing an API for a specific client it may be possible to limit measures as long as it ensures secure access for this specific client.
Nevertheless it is advised to review the following security measures, which are mostly inspired by the [OWASP REST Security Cheat Sheet](https://cheatsheetseries.owasp.org/cheatsheets/REST_Security_Cheat_Sheet.html)

Even while remaining client agnostic, clients can be classified in four major groups.

> This is in line with common practice in OAuth2.

Reviewer 3: reference naar OAuth maybe? Of is dat overbodig?

1. Web applications.
2. Native applications.
3. Browser-based applications.
4. System-to-system applications.

This section contains elements that apply to the generic classes of clients listed above.
Although not every client implementation has a need for all the specifications referenced below, a client agnostic API SHOULD provide these to facilitate any client to implement relevant security controls.

Most specifications referenced in this section are applicable to the first three classes of clients listed above.
Security considerations for native applications are provided in [[[rfc8252]]], much of which can help non-OAuth2 based implementations as well.
For browser-based applications a subsection is included with additional details and information.
System-to-system (sometimes called machine-to-machine) may have a need for the listed specifications as well.
Note that different usage patterns may be applicable in contexts with system-to-system clients, see above under Client Authentication.

Realizations may rely on internal usage of HTTP-Headers.
Information for processing requests and responses can be passed between components, that can have security implications.

> For instance, this is commonly practices between a reverse proxy or TLS-offloader and an application server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For instance, this is common practice between a reverse proxy or TLS-offloader and an application server.
```

Additional HTTP headers are used in such example to pass an original IP-address or client certificate.

Implementations MUST consider filtering both inbound and outbound traffic for HTTP-headers used internally.

> Primary focus for inbound filtering is to prevent injection of malicious headers on requests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Primary focus of inbound filtering is to prevent injection of malicious headers on requests.
```

> For outbound filtering, the main concern is leaking of information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As for outbound filtering, the main concern is leaking of information.
```

These applications can be split into three architectural patterns:
- JavaScript applications with a Backend; with this class of applications, the Backend is the confidential client and should intermediate any interaction, with tokens never ending up in the browser.
Effectively, these are not different from regular web-application for this security facet, even though they leverage JavaScript for implementation.
- JavaScript applications that share a domain with the API (resource server); these can leverage cookies marked as HTTP-Only, Secure and SameSite.
- JavaScript applications without a Backend; these clients are considered public clients, are potentially more suspect to several types of attacks, including Cross-Site Scripting (XSS), Cross Site Request Forgery (CSRF) and OAuth token theft.
In order to support these clients, the Cross-Origin Resource Sharing (CORS) policy mentioned above is critical and MUST be supported.

### Validate content types
A REST request or response body SHOULD match the intended content type in the header.
Otherwise this could cause misinterpretation at the consumer/producer side and lead to code injection/execution.

> - Reject requests containing unexpected or missing content type headers with HTTP response status `406 Unacceptable` or `415 Unsupported Media Type`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Reject requests containing unexpected or missing content type headers with HTTP response status `406 Not Acceptable` or `415 Unsupported Media Type`.
```
